# Propagation-simulation-result
The results of numerical FDTD simulations for the paper entitled "An observation of nanosecond ultrawideband electromagnetic pulses of the radiation of high-voltage discharges using the laboratory model of the thunderstorm cloud" by Gushchin M.E. et al.

All files stored here are vectors or matrices coefficients presented in the text format and space symbol separated. "loadtxt" function from "numpy" library can be used for the data loading by a Python user.

# electromagnetic-pulses-by-electricс-discharges
The results of the laboratory experiment described in the paper named "Nanosecond electromagnetic pulses generated by electric discharges: observation with clouds of charged water droplets and implications for lightning" by Gushchin M.E. et al.
Data files are in data folder.
Pictures **PicA.png**, **PicB.png**, **PicC.png**, **PicD.png** are the photos of the discharge events accompanied by microwave bursts. Exposure was of 70 mks, a camera was turned on 45 degrees.
* PicA -- collision of streamer zones.
* PicB -- start of the positive leader. 
* PicC -- a spark discharge in the form of a collision of the negative (top) and positive (bottom) leaders.
* PicD -- a spark at the return stroke stage.

File **calibration.csv** contains results of simultaneous calibration of inductive TPMP probe used for measuring of magnetic field pulses, and two trip-line IPPL probes for measuring of electric field pulses. The calibration procedure is described at the paper. The data presented with the comma-separated values (CSV) format. First column is a time grid in seconds, second column is a magnetic H field measured in A/m. Third and fourth columns is electric field E strength measured in V/m. First row is a legend.
Files **photomultiplier.csv**, **current.csv**, and **horn.csv.zip** are results of simultaneous measuring of light emission, current and EM radiation of a discharge. All files were written with CSV format. First column is the time grid, second is measured value. Values and measuring units described in a legend, written at first line of each file. **horn.csv.zip** is compressed.
Measurements of ultrawideband electromagnetic pulses of spark discharges presented at files **ser7_17.csv**, **ser7_17_14.csv**, **ser7_17_21.csv**. Data was written with CSV format like **calibration.csv**.
